Communication is vital to everyday life, and the internet has made it easier to connect people from across the globe with the advent of social media. It is easy to have a live video chat to someone in Hong Kong from the US, for example, with only a computer and a high-speed internet connection. Combined with this technology and the fact that over the last few years, many social media platforms such as Facebook, Snapchat, Instagram, Weibo, etc. have arisen, social media has influenced more people than ever before. People can now connect in many ways they could have previously not been able to do so. Although social media has given people the accessibility to an enormous amount of people and information, it has not necessarily made people truly happier. An example of why social media has not made people truly happier can be seen in physical human interactions. There are many people who constantly need to look and interact with their phones rather than with people. In fact, a Pew Research study on teenagers in the US in 2018 showed that 45% of teenagers are almost constantly online Anderson and Jingjing. This statistic is probably high because many people have their smartphones readily available in their pockets. This is partially true in that in the same study, 95% of teenagers reported that they had access to a smartphone Anderson and Jingjing. From these statistics, it may seem that almost everyone has a problem with social media, but this is not the case. In the 24% of teenagers who disliked social media and its effects on people with similar age, some have mentioned that “It makes it harder for people to socialize in real life, because they become accustomed to not interacting with people in person ” Anderson and Jingjing. If there are people who believe that this is a problem in the same age group, there is something that needs to be fixed. In fact, quitting social media may be a solution to mending back social interactions. A study conducted by Denmark split more than a thousand users into two groups and made one to quit Facebook for a week, and the group that quit had experienced big jumps in life satisfaction and positive emotions. Furthermore, the study concluded that the more Facebook a person used to quit, the more positive benefit the person gained (Heid). This study goes to show that interacting with people who are physically reachable online instead is not a great thing, and that by abstaining from social media, people can instead become truly happier and feel more positive emotions. Social media has often made lives worse by creating a niche where people can disrespect others. With the facade of anonymity on the internet, people feel less accountable for their actions. This fact is emphasized with the quotation of top responses teenagers gave in a study conducted in 2018, which mentions that “People can say whatever they want with anonymity and I think that has a negative impact” (Anderson and Jingjing). Especially with teenagers who do not have the frontal cortex of their brain fully developed, teenagers sometimes cannot understand that what they are doing is necessarily a harmful act. Not only do teenagers use social media, but many adults use it; however, this fact does not mean that the internet is clean from hatred. Sometimes, so many people become offended at controversial subjects that a website is often taken down. A prime example of this is Reddit’s ban on subreddits or pages that have a specific overarching theme. Because of the prevalence of niches that are blatantly offensive, social media often sends the wrong message to young people that it is acceptable to disparage others. As a consequence, scornful behavior on social media can manifest into cyberbullying, an issue that commonly occurs with adolescents. With disregard to morality, these cyberbullies relentlessly send harassing messages to their victims. As a consequence, many teenagers become depressed and often commit suicide because they feel that they do not have any way to escape the constant horrid insults.
